

 
Accessibility links
Skip to content
Accessibility Help
Sign in 
BBC navigation
Menu

Search the BBC

Search the BBC

 
News
BBC News Navigation

Home
Video
World
Asia
UK
selected
Business
Tech
Science
Stories
Entertainment & Arts
Health
World News TV
More
sections
 
Politics
selected
Parliaments
Brexit
Local Elections 2018
Advertisement




Iran nuclear deal: Johnson to court Trump on Fox & Friends
1 hour ago

Share this with Facebook

Share this with Twitter

Share this with Messenger

Share this with Email
Share 
Related Topics
Iran nuclear deal
 
Image copyright
EPA/AFP
UK Foreign Secretary Boris Johnson will appear shortly on US TV news show Fox & Friends to try to persuade President Donald Trump not to abandon the Iran nuclear deal.
Mr Johnson is not meeting Mr Trump while in Washington and the show is known to be a presidential favourite.
Under the international deal, Iran has limited its nuclear activities in return for eased economic sanctions.
Mr Trump must decide whether to stick with the agreement by 12 May.
He has previously called the deal "insane".
What is the Iran nuclear deal?
Is Iran's economy better off since the nuclear deal?
Could the deal collapse?
Britain, France and Germany have been working behind the scenes for weeks in an effort to preserve the deal, which was orchestrated under the Obama administration, and includes Russia and China as signatories.
What is Mr Johnson saying?
When he appears on the show, he is likely to expand on ideas he earlier set out in the New York Times.
There, he argued that "only Iran would gain" from abandoning nuclear restrictions.
"Of all the options we have for ensuring that Iran never gets a nuclear weapon, this pact offers the fewest disadvantages," he wrote.
Mr Johnson said the deal "has weaknesses, certainly, but I am convinced they can be remedied", adding that the UK was working with the US, France and Germany to achieve that. 
He said the deal had put restrictions on Iran's nuclear programme and "now that these handcuffs are in place, I see no possible advantage in casting them aside", adding that the handcuffs should be improved, not broken.
UK ambassador to the US, Kim Darroch, told US media: "We think that we can find some language, produce some action that meets the president's concerns."
While in Washington, Mr Johnson will meet US Vice-President Mike Pence, National Security Adviser John Bolton and foreign policy leaders in Congress. 
Why are there differences among the allies?
Mr Trump has called the deal the "worst ever" and has threatened to withdraw unless the signatories agree to fix its "disastrous flaws".
He believes the terms are too lenient, in particular that the deal limits Iran's nuclear activities for only a fixed period and fails to stop the development of ballistic missiles.



Media caption
A timeline of what Trump's said about the Iran deal
US Secretary of State Mike Pompeo said the nuclear deal had been "built on lies", after Israel revealed "secret nuclear files" accusing Iran of having run a secret nuclear weapons programme that was reportedly mothballed 15 years ago.
German Chancellor Angela Merkel, French President Emmanuel Macron and UN Secretary General Antonio Guterres have all warned Mr Trump not to walk away from the deal.
Mr Macron said he agreed the deal should have wider terms and address some of Mr Trump's concerns. He also said he feared Mr Trump would pull out.
Mr Trump must decide by 12 May whether to renew the waiver on sanctions, and has a wide range of options on whether to re-impose them.
What has Iran said?
President Hassan Rouhani said the US would face "historic regret" if it pulled out.



Media caption
Rouhani: The US would regret leaving nuclear deal "like never before"
In remarks carried live on state television, he said Iran had "a plan to counter any decision Trump may take and we will confront it".
But he also hinted Iran could work out a deal with other signatories, excluding the US.
Mr Rouhani said: "If we can get what we want from a deal without America, then Iran will continue to remain committed to the deal. But if not, Tehran will continue its own path."
Iran has said the documents produced by Israel were a rehash of old allegations already dealt with by the UN's nuclear watchdog.
What is the Iran deal?
In 2015 Tehran signed a deal with the US, China, Russia, Germany, France and Britain agreeing to limit its nuclear activities in return for the lifting of crippling economic sanctions.
Under the deal, officially known as the Joint Comprehensive Plan of Action (JCPOA), Iran is committed to slashing the number of its centrifuges, which are machines used to enrich uranium.



Media caption
What is the Iran nuclear deal?
It is also meant to cut its stockpile of enriched uranium drastically and not enrich remaining uranium to the level needed to produce nuclear weapons.
The number of centrifuges installed at Iran's Natanz and Fordo sites was cut drastically soon after the deal while tonnes of low-enriched uranium were shipped to Russia.
Furthermore, monitors from the IAEA have been able to carry out snap inspections at Iranian nuclear sites.
 
Related Topics
Boris Johnson
Iran
Donald Trump
United States
Iran nuclear deal

Share this story About sharing 
Email
Facebook
Messenger
Twitter
Pinterest
LinkedIn
More on this story
Is the Iran nuclear deal about to collapse? 
1 May 2018
Iran nuclear deal: UN urges Trump not to walk away 
3 May 2018
Israel's Iran documents show nuclear deal 'was built on lies' 
1 May 2018
Iran nuclear deal: UK backs deal despite US and Israel accusations 
1 May 2018
Iran nuclear deal: Key details 
13 October 2017
UK Politics 

UK-EU customs partnership 'still on table' 
6 May 2018
From the section 
UK Politics 
Full article UK-EU customs partnership 'still on table'

Call for 'rights for grandparents' law 
7 May 2018
From the section 
UK Politics 
Full article Call for 'rights for grandparents' law

Adonis sorry for Sajid Javid cartoon tweet 
7 May 2018
From the section 
UK Politics 
Full article Adonis sorry for Sajid Javid cartoon tweet
 
More Videos from the BBC



'Without straws we can't have a drink'



Sympathy for sleepy Prince William



Trump lets off steam in TV interview



Derby murder victim was 'held prisoner'



Sex five times a day 'wasn't enough'



Frightened wild elephants trample refugees
Recommended by Outbrain 

 
Elsewhere on BBC


BBC News
Flight restriction set for royal wedding


BBC Culture
Explore our selection of art, culture, music and film events from around the globe


BBC News
Heating-off couple died from hypothermia
Recommended by Outbrain 

 
You Might Also Like


BBC Travel
The world’s ultimate milkshake?


BBC Culture
Twelve obscure words with delightful meanings


BBC Culture
The ‘Meghan effect’ is nothing new


Top Stories
Trump backs CIA pick after offer to quit 
The president defends Gina Haspel after she came under fire over controversial interrogations.
25 minutes ago
Air France shares dive as woes deepen 
4 hours ago
Johnson to court Trump on favourite show 
1 hour ago
Advertisement

Features 

A 92-year-old politician's big comeback?


This is what India's caste hatred looks like


The woman who watched 300 executions
Advertisement


I sold all I had to go to Europe - now I'm home, and broke


Video
 
Could Trump's 'Space Force' become a reality?


Why black sci-fi 'can't be ignored'


Video
 
The 13-year-old 'Nigerian Serena'


The golden oldies we can't stop streaming


A look at some of the world's strangest strikes

Most Read
1
The woman who watched 300 executions in Texas
2
Tour de Yorkshire marshal: 'How did car miss me?'
3
Early May Bank Holiday Monday heat record broken
4
Britain's 'best and worst' railway stations named
5
India rape: Second Jharkhand teenager set alight, police say
6
Iran nuclear deal: Johnson to court Trump on Fox & Friends
7
Gun violence on London's streets 'must stop'
8
How #HotPersonInAWheelchair is fighting hate on Twitter
9
Air France shares drop sharply as strikes continue
10
Nestle pays Starbucks $7.1bn to sell its coffee
 
From Around the Web


Heidi Klum’s New Penthouse Is “One Of The Last Of Its…
Mansion Global


Don't Fly From China Without Checking These…
Save 70


Interest Rate - Expats Could Be Increasing Their…
Abbey Wealth


Nobody does spring color like Mother Nature
Environmental News and Information | MNN - Mother Nature Network


10 new islands formed in the last 20 years
Environmental News and Information | MNN - Mother Nature Network


China Has Unreal Hotel Prices
www.tripsinsider.com
Promoted content by Outbrain 

Ads by Google


Why you can trust BBC News 
BBC News Services
On your mobile
On your connected tv
Get news alerts
Contact BBC News

Explore the BBC
Sport
Weather
TV
Radio
CBBC
CBeebies
Food
iWonder
Bitesize
Music
Arts
Make It Digital
Taster
Local
Terms of Use
About the BBC
Privacy Policy
Cookies
Accessibility Help
Parental Guidance
Contact the BBC
Get Personalised Newsletters
Copyright © 2018 BBC. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking. 

Skip to content
Features
Business
Explore
Marketplace
Pricing

Search GitHub
Sign in or Sign up
Bring GitHub to work
Securely develop your company’s software on GitHub, whether you work for a small startup or a large enterprise

 Hosted on GitHub
 Hosted on your servers
GitHub for Business
Customers
Security
Trusted by more than 1.8M* businesses and organizations
Airbnb
IBM
SAP
PayPal
Spotify
Bloomberg
* As of March 2018
	
“Transparency helps us vet the best ideas no matter where they come from and GitHub helps us scale that.”

Lindsay Young, Mapbox
	
“Using GitHub is part of a larger investment in developer happiness and building product.”

Mike Champion, HubSpot

Collaboration for teams
A smarter way to work together
Plan, build, review, and ship software at work—all while tracking bugs and discussing ideas.


Have conversations next to your code
You don’t have to switch tools to review code, share input on projects, or open up the conversation to the rest of your team.

Learn more about reviewing code on GitHub


Discover and reuse code
Search across projects and issues to find and reuse code your teammates have written. Improve it along the way, and everyone wins.


Find and fix issues faster
Greater visibility into your team’s code helps you squash bugs before they make it to production. And with integrated issue tracking, you can keep your team on top of fixes.

Learn more about project management on GitHub

Security
Security without compromise
Enforcing your security policies doesn’t have to complicate the way you work. Develop software according to your team’s needs without overburdening your process.

Support critical policies
Know who authored code or pushed a commit, automate compliance workflows, and protect branches from accidental changes.

Choose your authentication method
Encourage teamwork while enforcing essential controls for employees and contractors with support for two-factor authentication and SAML single sign-on.

Gain visibility into how teams work
Help developers work better together with data from audits and monitoring dashboards.


Need more to support your security and administrative policies? Deploy GitHub Enterprise on your own servers or in a private cloud for enterprise-grade security.

Administration
Effortless administration
Growing your team should be exciting, not distracting. We’ve made setup and scaling easy so you can focus on what counts.


Get started faster
With easy setup and onboarding, your team will be writing code, fixing bugs, and bringing the next big idea to life in no time.

Grow your team
Whether you’re a team of two or an organization of thousands, onboarding and managing users is hassle-free.

Give the right amount of access
Teams can access exactly what they need to do their work with GitHub teams, organizations, and precise, centralized permissions with LDAP.

Customize with APIs
Make GitHub your own with customizations that ensure quality, reduce risk, and integrate trusted apps.

See what’s possible with APIs

Flexible hosting
Host GitHub where you need it
Get the same GitHub experience whether you’re hosting in the cloud, on your servers, or on Amazon Web Services, Azure, or Google Cloud Platform.

On GitHub.com
For teams who want to keep administrative work to a minimum while easily authenticating users and managing permissions.

On your servers
For teams with strict regulatory or compliance needs that have to host code on-premises or require advanced auditing and monitoring capabilities.

 

Enterprise 2.13 is here!
Our latest GitHub Enterprise release has arrived with new ways for teams to collaborate, build custom tools, and more.

See what’s new
Features
Code review
Project management
Integrations
Team management
Social coding
Documentation
Code hosting
Platform
Atom
Electron
GitHub Desktop
Developer API
Community
Personal
Open source
Business
Education
Customers
Partners
Sponsorships
Company
About
Blog
Careers
Press
Shop
Resources
Contact GitHub
Community Forum
Help
Status
Terms
Privacy
Security
Training
Press h to open a hovercard with more details.